---
layout: post
title:  "My Experience With Keto"
date:   2020-06-01
categories: me
---

I was inspired by the ketosis portion of [this post][keto-post], and also because it's quarantine so I'm not eating out. I started a keto diet--eating <20 grams of carbs per day--on April 20th.

## The Good
After a few days I began to feel much more energetic, as if I was on a medium-low dose of caffeine every day (50 - 75mg, for comparison I take 200mg most days for work), lasting the whole day. I find it easier to get out of bed. I feel more able to focus during routine or boring things like reading documentation or doing code reviews.

I'm less hungry. Most days I eat a small breakfast around 9am, a medium lunch around 2pm, and finally a snack sometime in the evening. It feels easier to avoid compulsively eating, though it remains hard for me to avoid binge eating if there is something tasty in front of me. I lost about 10 pounds in 5 weeks, and I haven't been exercising at all because of an injury.

## The Bad
I had diarhhea and stomach pain for the first 3 or 4 days--otherwise I felt fine. I didn't experience any of the other common 'keto flu' symptoms. I haven't seen anything definitive on what causes keto flu, but [supposedly][keto-flu] it has to do with lack of water and electrolytes. I drink LOTS of water, but didn't do anything to combat the keto flu.

My sweat has a distinct keto smell, sort of like dry meat. I noticed it within a few days, but those around me don't notice anything unless I get sweaty (I asked them).

## Food Options
The food options are repetive and boring. 80% of what I eat is meat or cheese. I also often have pork rinds, eggs, spinach, mustard, keto power bars (expensive), and avocados/guacamole. I recently discovered keto dessert recipes with fake sugar--these have been incredible. You can make some delicious 'chocolate mousse' with basically avocado or cream cheese, fake sugar, and cocoa powder.

## Cheat Meals
I broke keto yesterday and last Sunday by eating lots of carbs and sugar for dinner. I haven't experienced any strong sugar cravings, but I go to my parents' house for dinner most Sundays and it's hard to ignore cookies or chocolate cupcakes in my face. Both times, I felt more tired the next day, but my symptoms only lasted the day. [This study][cheat-study] indicates cheating can damage your blood vessels but I haven't seen anything else about this. 

## Conclusion
I've been doing keto (with 2 cheat days) for 6 weeks now. I plan to just keep going until I don't feel like it any more. I doubt I will be able to last past the end of quarantine--I don't have the self-control to stick to keto when eating out with friends. I would *strongly* recommend trying this out to anyone who feels chronicly tired.

[keto-post]: https://dormin.org/2020/04/17/30-day-carnivore-challenge/?fbclid=IwAR2L4_KKMbjcCUyWp7ET5Jryl3vtPUDJ-AQFZ6rPrph1UvRsrD4PSw1uYWY
[keto-flu]:  https://www.reddit.com/r/keto/wiki/faq#wiki_what_is_.201Cketo_flu.201D_and_how_long_will_i_have_it.3F
[cheat-study]: https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2019/03/190327112657.htm
